---
layout: srilanka2018
trip: srilanka2018
title: Sri Lanka Days 12 and 13
---

# Sri Lanka, Day 12 and Day 13: Colombo and return to Beijing

* Breakfast at Pedlar's Cafe on the corner of Pedlar and Rampart Streets with a view of the sea. Good sized breakfast and coffee. Rs 1540.
* On the recommendation of Ms Wijenayake, took the air conditioned highway bus back to Colombo instead of the train. This bus is privately operated (not affiliated with the Sri Lanka Transport Board), so it leaves across the street from the Galle Central bus terminal. Note that the "Air Conditioned Express" bus that does leave from the terminal is a minibus that takes the A2 highway, while the privately run bus (an actual highway motorcoach with baggage compartment underneath) takes the much faster E01 expressway, but it only goes to the Maharagama suburb of Colombo in about 1h45m. From there, it is about a 30-minute Uber to Colombo 3. (Rs 450 Bus + Rs 536.49 Uber).
* Stay: My Little Island Hostel, 594/1 Galle Road Marine House, Kollupitiya Colombo 3. +94 76 535 6789. Booked on Booking.com for USD 12. Nearest train station is Bambalapitiya.
* 2:00 Lunch in Colombo: Kollupitiya McDonald's to add Sri Lanka to list of places where I've had McDonald's in.

Day 13
* Return to Beijing: Sri Lankan Airlines UL 868 left Colombo Bandaranaike International Airport at 1:40 PM and arrived at Beijing Capital International Airport at 11:10 PM. Flight booked on SriLankan's website for Rs 60,669 (CAD 458.32).
* Be sure to eat and drink up before arriving at the airport - all businesses within the airport charge in USD *and at literal USD prices*!

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/12/05/srilanka11.html">Day 11: Galle</a></div></h4>