---
layout: srilanka2018
trip: srilanka2018
title: Sri Lanka Day 7
---

# Sri Lanka, Day 7: Nuwara Eliya

From Lonely Planet: "Often referred to as "Little England", this *genteel* highland community does have a rose-tinted, vaguely British-country-village feel to it, with its colonial-era bungalows, Tudor-style houses, well-tended hedgerows and pretty gardens. A rainy-day, misty-mountain atmosphere blankets the town from November to February, so don't come expecting tropical climes. The train station closest to Nuwara Eliya is located in Nanu Oya, about 6 km away. Buses and taxis are available from the station or arrange to be picked up by the hotel. The town, Sri Lanka's highest (and coolest), is fairly compact so it is easy to get around by foot, but carry a flashlight at night to avoid holes in the pavements."

* Train 1005 (*Podi Menike*) departs daily from Kandy at 8:47 and arrives Nanu Oya at 12:45, it is a new Chinese-built "Blue train". (This train continues to Badulla). This train was 40 minutes late and remarkably full when it arrived in Kandy (from Colombo). Locals told me because it was a Saturday and everyone was going home for the weekend. There is instead a special first-class only train leaving Kandy at 7:45 (ending in Ella) that runs on weekends that I would recommend. There was only one unreserved 2nd class coach (about 6 reserved coaches - and even then I wasn't able to snag a reserved seat even when setting up a reservation before reserved ticketing opened), and not everyone could fit standing in the 2nd class, so standees had to spill over into the 3rd class coaches. Overall a very poor experience - try to get a reserved seat. Rs 240.
* 1:30 Arrival at Nanu Oya, hired a tuktuk to the Mint Bungalow, and negotiated with the driver to bring me to Horton Plains National Park the next day. Rs 400.
* 2:30 Lunch at Araliya Green City - clean, food-court style diverse menu. Recommended to me by host of Mint Bungalow. Rs 1330.
* 3:30 Walked to the Single Tree Hill lookout (approx. 40 minutes from lunch spot), then back the same way. There were reports that a path that continued along the ridge back to town, thus allowing for a circular loop, but the path seems to be now blocked by cell towers.
* 4:15 Victoria Park: This is one of the country's most attractive, and best-maintained town parks. (Indeed it was). Rs 300, 7a-6p.
* 4:45 Nuwara Eliya Post Office: Historic British-style building with functioning post office with gift shop. Bought a postcard (Rs 30) and a stamp (Rs 35) to mail a postcard back home.
* 5:30 Dinner at Milano Restaurant - despite the name, served Sri Lankan, Chinese, Indian, and Western food. Rs 1320. Bought bottled water from nearby Super K supermarket after dinner. Rs 210.
* Stay: The Mint Bungalow, No. 17/1 Park Road, 22200 Nuwara Eliya. +94 77 496 3594. Booked on Booking.com for USD 27.72 (including 10% Genius discount), but actually paid Rs 4860 in cash upon arrival. Really non-descript building near the Trevene Hotel (apparently the same business), where employees can be found for check-in. Room was very damp and had slight odour. Wi-Fi was not working as a storm supposedly knocked over the internet cable line to the building, so had to go to Trevene Hotel's lobby to use internet.

Some supplementary notes from Lonely Planet about places I did not go to:
* Galway's Land National Park: one of Sri Lanka's newest (2006) and smallest (29 sq hectares) national parks, a dense patch of montane forest a couple kilometres east of town. Renowned for its birdlife as well as buffalo, wild board, barking deer, and other mammals. (*Buffalo?*). There's very little on-site information, but guides are available (by donation) from the park office and a 2-km long walking trail also leaves from there. (*Hawaeliya; US $10 + 15% tax, 6a-5p*)
* Hakgala Gardens: These attractive gardens, 10km southeast of Nuwara Eliya, are a peaceful retreat. Highlights include a fine rose garden, a Japanese garden, an orchid collection, cedars and giant cypresses. However, the entrance fee is very steep for foreigners. TO get there, take a Welimada-bound bus (Rs 22, 20 minutes). (*Rs 1500, 7:30a-5:30p*)
* Lovers' Leap Viewpoint: From the Pedro Tea Estate (take a Ragalla-bound bus, Rs 15 or three-wheeler Rs 450 return), take a very enjoyable 5km (round-trip) walk to Lovers' Leap, an impressive waterfall.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/11/30/srilanka6.html">Day 6: Sigiriya/Kandy</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/12/02/srilanka8.html">Day 8: Horton Plains National Park</a></div></h4>