---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 23
---

# On the Camino, Day 23: Astorga to Foncebad&oacute;n

### 260.2 km to Santiago de Compostela

Once again, I looked ahead and decided to make some changes to the length of today's and the next two stages. I noticed that the guidebook's staging passed through the large city of Ponferrada, and also had a 20 km stage today and a 30 km stage in two days' time, so I decided to better redistribute the distances. Today's stage was originally only so far as Rabanal del Camino, but instead I decided we should go 5.8 km further to Foncebad&oacute;n.

We woke up at 5 again and had breakfast within the AirBnB and left Astorga at 6 on the dot. It was really cold this morning, to the point that I was wearing long pants. Our first village was Murias de Rechivalda where we stopped for breakfast at the Bar Cris, which just opened when we arrived at 7. We continued to Santa Catalina and then to El Ganso where we stopped for another coffee because of the cold.

Today's stage began climbing to about 1,400 feed above sea level, setting us up for the highest point of the Camino tomorrow. In Rabanal, we stopped for lunch, and sensing that Foncebad&oacute;n would be a small village, we also bought two loaves of bread for dinner. The final five kilometres was on a rough path, and a steep climb. We reached Foncebad&oacute;n at 1:30, and after passing by two private albergues that were full and a *parroquial* that didn't open until 3, we ended up at the Cruz de Ferro albergue, which had beds available and fairly decent wi-fi.

#### Next: [Stage 24: Foncebad&oacute;n to Ponferrada](/2018/09/27/camino24.html)