---
layout: srilanka2018
trip: srilanka2018
title: Sri Lanka Day 6
---

# Sri Lanka, Day 6: Sigiriya Half-Day and return to Kandy

Sigiriya is one of Sri Lanka's most famous archaeological monuments. To avoid the fiercest heat and crowds, get as early a start as possible. The ticket office opens at 7am. Head to the rock itself to climb up in the morning, then tour the gardens and museums later. The narrow staircases get clogged after about 9:30. Wear a hat (very little shade!) and plenty of water.

* 6:30 Breakfast at Lion Lodge (Rs 400): toast, tea, fried egg, and Sri Lankan breakfast pastries (which were foreign to me, but pretty good!)
* 7:00 Walked to Sigiriya Foreigner's Entrance (15 minutes from the Lion Lodge)
* 7:30-9:30 Sigiriya: Adult/Child US$30/15, tickets 7a-5:30p. Exchange rate of the day meant that ticket came to Rs 5430!
    - Summit: The spectacular terraced summit covers 1.6 hectares. It had unfortunately clouded over by the time I reached the top.
    - Frescoes: Halfway up the rock an open-air spiral stairway leads to a long, sheltered gallery in the sheer rock face. The paintings are believed to represent either '*asparas*' (celestial nymphs) or King Kasyapa's (5th century) concubines. Photos not allowed.
    - Royal Gardens: "Beautifully" landscaped area at the base of the rock.
    - Sigiriya Museum: Decent museum has a fine diorama of the site, providing an excellent overview. Museum is actually very well done and up to Western standards.
* 9:30 Bus to Dambulla. The "official" bus stop is down the street from the Lion Lodge (away from Dambulla) near the school and post office, but you can just flag down a bus as one passes by. Host at the Lion Lodge said there should be a bus every 20 minutes or so. Rs 50, travel time almost an hour to Dambulla. Buses to Kandy leave from the same spot where the bus dropped you off.
* 10:30 Early lunch at Mango Mango cafe-restaurant as recommended by Lonely Planet. Rs 320. Nicely air conditioned, about 500m away from bus stop.
* 11:15 Air Conditioned minibus towards Kandy (on the Anuradhapura-Kandy route). Locals say the AC bus comes every 20-30 minutes. Minibus was already half-full upon arrival and mostly foreigners took this bus, so travellers arriving later weren't able to fit on this departure. Payment upon exiting the minibus. Rs 300 for the return trip, and only to Matale, oddly enough (considering outbound trip from Kandy was only Rs 230).
* 12:00 Arrived at Matale, seemingly predominantly Muslim city, and most shops were closed for Friday prayer time. Local train on the Matale spur line had a departure for Kandy at 1:55, third class only. Took over an hour to cover distance of 26 kilometres. Not worth the dedicated side trip unless for serious train fans. The view on the left side (southbound to Kandy) is better.
* 1:30 Alighted at stop before Kandy: Asgriya, located at north end of town and close to Meili Lanka hotel to pick up backpack. From there, called a tuk-tuk to go to Pearl House. Tuk-tuk driver was very confused with Pearl House's address, had to call for driving instructions.
* 5:00 Dinner at Slightly Chilled Restaurant and Bar (another LP-recommendation). Run by a Brit with a diverse menu featuring Chinese food and 400 Rupee beers during Happy Hour. Rs 1600. Took tuk-tuk back to Pearl House (again, driver needed to call for directions) for Rs 700.
* Stay: Pearl House 200/46 Fred Silva Avenue/Peradeniya Road Kandy. +94 77 746 5407. Booked on Booking.com for US$27. Credit card info not needed, only cash allowed. Includes 10% Genius discount and breakfast.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/11/29/srilanka5.html">Day 5: Dambulla/Sigiriya</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/12/01/srilanka7.html">Day 7: Nuwara Eliya</a></div></h4>