---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 29
---

# On the Camino, Day 29: Sarria to Portomar&iacute;n

### 117.4 km to Santiago de Compostela

We decided to leave even later this morning because the weather forecast said the temperature would be a very low five degrees before 7 AM. So, we woke up at 6 and had breakfast in the kitchen, I had a soup that I bought last night that was nice to have in the cold morning. We were out the door of the Albergue Obradoiro and started walking out of Sarria at 6:45 AM. I recognized a lot of the places along the trail from our last visit three years ago, such as the Monasterio de la Magdalena where we got our *credencial* last time; we probably interrupted the priest's siesta when we rang the bell.

Once again, we passed by the villages of Barbadelo (the sign I remember vividly from last time because it was the first village sign leaving Sarria was still there, but with a lot more graffiti), Morgade (we stopped at a rest shelter past the Casa Morgade Cafe last time because it was still closed for the low season - it was open this time), Ferrerios (dad even took a picture of the restaurant we ate at last time, but we were too early for lunch when we got there today), and Vilach&aacute; before crossing the familiar bridge into Portomar&iacute;n.

We decided that for nostalgia's sake, we'd stay at the same albergue as last time - the Albergue Ultriea. The hostess was quite happy to hear that we were repeat customers, and by chance she assigned us to the same beds as last time. This time, however, the albergue was entirely full (it is still high season for pilgrimates) unlike March 2015, when there were hardly anyone on the *Camino* (not a lot of pilgrimages take place in March).

Since it was already almost 1 when we checked in, we dropped off our bags and went out for lunch. First, we stopped by the Abanca ATM to withdraw some cash - I took out 300 euros from my Deutsche Bank account. Then, we had lunch from the Posada del Camino Restaurante on the main square. We returned to the albergue for me to shower and wash my clothes, then I rested in the afternoon. We went to get dinner from the grocery store, the same Cornivan as last time (well, at least the location was a supermarket last time, we weren't sure if the brand was Cornivan or not at the time), and ate in the albergue's kitchen.

(*Editor's Note: It was on this day that big news came out from Waterloo: our very own Donna Strickland, Associate Professor in the Department of Physics, was announced as one of the three joint winners of this year's Nobel Prize in Physics, only the third woman to win this prize. Of course, everyone at the University was jubilant, and a special email was sent out by Feridun to everyone and Waterloo was trending on social media - everyone from the Prime Minister to the Governor General to even the President of France was congratulating Professor Strickland on the honour.*)

#### Next: [Stage 30: Portomar&iacute;n to Palas de Rei](/2018/10/03/camino30.html)