---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 18
---

# On the Camino, Day 15: Castrojeriz to Fr&oacute;mista

### 449.3 km to Santiago de Compostela
**Summary**<br>
Distance: 24.9 km<br>
Breakfast: Pre-purchased from night before<br>
Coffee: *En El Camino* albergue and restaurant, Boadilla: &euro;5,60<br>
Lunch: *Hotel San Martin*, Fr&oacute;mista: &euro;21,00<br>
Dinner: DIY from D&iacute;a Supermarket: &euro;6,84<br>
Overnight: Albergue Municipal Fr&oacute;mista: &euro;8/bed<brß>

We woke up at the Albergue Rosalia in Castrojeriz at 4:45 AM, thanks to my alarm. I had slept early last night and it wasn't too hot, so I slept well. We quietly moved our bags downstairs, boiled a cup of water for coffee, and ate some of the croissants we bought the night before and we were out on our way at a new-record-early 5:30 AM. It was a steep climb over a small hill in the dark to the first village of Itero de la Vega, by when it was starting to light up. We crossed in to the Province of Palencia (*Editor's Note: Not a typo, not to be confused with Valencia*), leaving the Province of Burgos behind. We passed by Boadilla del Camino, where we stopped for a coffee, then made our way to Fr&oacute;mista, arriving at 11:30. We didn't have any reservations or plans on where to stay for the night, so we went to the municipal *albergue*, only to find that they didn't open their doors until 1:30 in the afternoon and that we were literally the first ones there. So, we left our bags outside the door on some benches under the shade and went to get some lunch before check-in began. Once again, I napped in the afternoon and dinner was supermarket food.

#### Next: [Stage 16: Fr&oacute;mista to Carri&oacute;n de los Condes](/2018/09/19/camino16.html)