---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 1
---

# On the Camino, Day 1: St-Jean-Pied-de-Port to Roncesvalles
## 776.2 km to Santiago de Compostela

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m28!1m12!1m3!1d257236.4931451662!2d-1.637827395939289!3d43.0927050282632!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m13!3e2!4m5!1s0xd50d5616cb5d49f%3A0x27d43cc64a91e1c7!2sSaint-Jean-Pied-de-Port!3m2!1d43.163140999999996!2d-1.23811!4m5!1s0xd50ce28f705148b%3A0x61e83118380eaefe!2sRoncesvalles!3m2!1d43.0091774!2d-1.31951!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sca!4v1607051577596!5m2!1sen!2sca" width="760" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" aria-hidden="false" tabindex="0"></iframe>

Today we started the Camino de Santiago pilgrimage route from the French village of St-Jean-Pied-de-Port. Yesterday, the volunteer at the Pilgrim's Office told us that we didn't need a reservation for tonight at the only pilgrim's accomodation in Roncesvalles, but we should leave at around 6 AM just to be safe. That was before sunrise (which took place at around 7:30), and before breakfast was served at the B&B we were staying at. So, we decided to wake up at 6, have the breakfast at 6:30 and leave right away after that. Even then, we were the first ones in the breakfast room and the owner remarked at how early we were. There was just bread and drip coffee and eggs, so we had a light breakfast and got ready to go.

We left at around 7:30, and there was already a steady stream of pilgrims leaving St-Jean through the Porte de France. We followed the caravan of walkers and began climbing - today's segment was probably the hardest of the entire route, an unfortunate way to start the trip, with a non-stop elevation gain of about 1,200 metres followed by a steep elevation drop of about 400 metres.

The first village we passed was at the 5km mark, called Huntto which was about three buildings large. Then, at around 10 AM, we arrived at the next village, Orisson, which had an <i>aubergue</i> and restaurant. This was the last village before Roncesvalles, about 17 km away, so many people had stopped for an early lunch. We continued onwards, though.

We crossed the border into Spain at around 1 PM, which was located at around the 17 km mark. We didn't go very fast, in fact, we were passed by almost everyone it seemed. It took us until 5:15 before we finally got to Roncesvalles, and everything was hurting. We were told, though, that the auberge and all the other beds at Roncesvalles had been filled - in fact, it was sold out by around 3 PM, so at our pace we would've had to leave St-Jean at around 5 AM. The staff there said that there was a taxi shuttling more walkers to the next village, and that the taxi driver knew of all the free beds in the area, so we began to wait. We had to wait for three taxi van-loads of people before we got a spot, and the taxi driver said that the next village, Bourgette, was completely full as well, and we had to go to the next village of Espinal. (Note: This will be the last time we ride in a vehicle of any kind until the end of our trip on the west coast of Spain in Mux&iacute;a)

There were four beds remaining at the "Camping Urrobi" about halfway between the two villages, so we got off the taxi there and checked in. We got two beds in the hostel building (as the name implied, it was a primarily a campground but with some permanent accomodation buildings) plus dinner, which was a "pilgrim's meal" of lentil soup, fried fish, and literally an orange for dessert with local Navarre wine.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/09/02/camino0.html">Pre-Camino Day 0: Bayonne to St-Jean-Pied-de-Port</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/09/04/camino2.html">Stage 2: Roncesvalles to Zubiri</a></div></h4>