---
layout: srilanka2018
trip: srilanka2018
title: Sri Lanka Day 1
---

# Sri Lanka, Day 1: Guangzhou, China to Colombo

* Train D2997 left Guilin North at 8:15 and arrived at Guangzhou Station at 11:04. Transferred to Guangzhou Baiyun Airport via subway took approx. 1h11m.
* China Southern CZ 3059 departed Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport at 3:05 PM and arrived at Colombo Bandaranaike International Airport at 6:40 PM (local times). Flight booked on China Southern's website on 10/25 for CNY 2018 (CAD $379.58)
* Customs at BIA no longer hand out free SIM cards upon arrival to tourists, contrary to what you may read online, but all major carriers have booths at the airport arrivals section including Mobitel: Pre-Paid Tourist SIM pack available for US $9 (various currencies accepted, but paid with USD) and includes domestic calls, 3 GB data, and Wifi hours for 30 days.
* Major Sri Lankan banks have ATMs in the arrivals area of the airport right before exiting the terminal, to the left of the currency exchange counters. Withdrew Rs 50,000 from the Commercial Bank ATM (maximum was 50,000 + Rs 400 fee)
* The Hostel in Colombo arranged a taxi pickup for US $20, but Uber would've been cheaper at Rs 2000. Taking the Katunayake Toll Expressway (recommended) has a toll of Rs 300.
* STAY: Star Anise Boutique Capsules Hostel - No. 1/15 *Mudalige Mawatha*, Colombo 1 Fort. +94 112 451 777. 1 Dorm Bed for 3 nights: CAD $56 (includes breakfast and airport shuttle). Booked with Booking.com, non-refundable booking.
* Review: Beware that the washrooms are "wet washrooms" typically found in south-east Asia, where toilets are in the same stalls as showers, so often wet. Design of the "capsules" (a bed with a privacy curtain) led to poor air circulation and got very warm, especially if A/C was not on

<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/11/26/srilanka2.html">Day 2: Colombo</a></div></h4>