---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 28
---

# On the Camino, Day 28: Triacastela to Sarria

### 133.8 km to Santiago de Compostela

Since the sun was rising later now, we decided to start walking later in the morning as well. As such, we woke up at 5:30 instead of 5, and had breakfast bread and Nescaf&eacute; in the Albergue-Pension Lemos kitchen and left at 6:30. Today's walk was quite short, under twenty kilometres, and we took the direct route via San Xil instead of the longer (but flatter) route via Samos.

There was nothing open in either San Xil or Furela, the next village down, so it wasn't until the village of Pintin did we have our breakfast omelette and cafe con leche at the Casa Cines. We continued and passed by the villages of Aguiada, San Mamed del Camino, San Pedro, Carballal, and Vigo de Sarria before entering Sarria - or should I say, returning to Sarria, for this was the starting point of our mini-Camino walk back in March of 2015.

Indeed, many of the streets and locations in Sarria looked familiar, such as the Praza de Constitucion and the large staircase going up the old city. I had made a reservation on Booking.com yesterday at the Albergue Obradoiro, so we headed there first and checked in. After checking in, I was going to shower when I noticed that my towel was missing again, and just like in Terradillos, I had left it in the last village of Triacastela. I ended up messaging the Albergue Lemos on Whatsapp, then we went to get lunch.

We ended up at the Meson Camino Frances, I recognized it as the same place we had morning coffee three years ago. After lunch, the albergue in Triacastela still did not reply to my Whatsapp message (I got left on read), so I showed the message to the receptionist at the Albergue Obradoira (for he didn't speak English), and he understood the situation and called Lemos. While we were resting, the receptionist told us that he got a hold of Lemos and my towel was indeed there, and that they could try to deliver it today. The towel indeed did arrive later in the evening while we went out to the supermarket to buy dinner, and the receptionist said that we didn't have to pay for the delivery since he knew someone who was driving here anyway and so brought it along with them.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/09/30/camino27.html">Stage 27: O'Cebreiro to Triacastela</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/10/02/camino29.html">Stage 29: Sarria to Portomar&iacute;n</a></div></h4>