---
layout: srilanka2018
trip: srilanka2018
title: Sri Lanka Day 5
---

# Sri Lanka, Day 4: Dambulla Caves en route to Sigiriya

From Lonely Planet: "Dambulla and Sigiriya are two sites located in Sri Lanka's cultural heartland. It was here on the central plains that the ancient Sinhalese dynasties set up their first capitals and supported massive artistic and architectural endeavours."

* 8:30: Air Conditioned minibus from Kandy to Dambulla - bus was bound for Anuradhapura. Located in the right-back corner of the Goods Shed bus terminal. All prices were posted (in Tamil only) and payment was done with printed receipt. Rs 230 to Dambulla.
* 10:45 Arrival in Dambulla, found a tuktuk driver and negotiated a Rs 300 price to Dambulla Caves ticket office
* 11-11:45 The Cave Temples: The Royal Rock Temple complex sites about 160m above the road (yes, you'll have to climb up). Five separate caves contain about 150 Buddha statues and paintings.
    - Due to legal issues, ticket office is located 1 km west of the main highway, on the south side of the hillside leading up to the temples. Foreign Adult: Rs 1500, 7am-6pm.
    - Cave I (*Devaraja Viharaya/Temple of the King of Gods*): 15m-long reclining Buddha. Ananda, the Buddha's loyal disciple, and other seated Buddhas are depicted nearby. A statue of Vishnu is held in a small shrine within the cave, but it's usually closed.
    - Cave II (*Maharaja Viharaya/Temple of the Great King*): Arguably the most spectacular; measures 52 by 23 by 7 m. Named after two statues of kings it contains.
    - Cave III (*Maha Alut Viharaya/New Great Temple*): Said to have been converted from a storeroom in the 18th century. Filled with (you guessed it) more Buddha statues.
    - Cave IV (*Pachima Viharaya/Western Cave*): More Buddhas, etc.
    - Cave V (*Devana Alut Viharaya/Second New Temple*): More westerly than Cave IV. Features a reclining Buddha.
    - Caves opened up at 11:30. The compound was much smaller than I expected, the successive caves are right next to each other. As it is a temple, knees need to be covered. Sarongs available for rental from ticket checker for Rs 100. Shoes can be kept at a stand outside the main gate for Rs 30.
* 11:45 Continued on the same tuk-tuk to Sigiriya, approximately 24 km away, for an additional Rs 1800. (Online reports suggest the trip is usually 1500, but the driver did wait for me at Dambulla upon request)
* 12:45 Lunch (chicken fried noodles) at a local stand near the Lion Lodge, Rs 800
* 2:00 Pidurangula Rock: the temples here actually predate Sigiriya. Located about 1 km north and offers amazing views of Sigiriya from its wide summit. A 20-minute hike up to the top with a final tricky scramble over boulders. A return tuktuk costs around Rs 700, including waiting time, or rent a bike or motor scooter from local hotels. Ended up walking there: 45 minutes to walk from Lion Lodge to trail head. Foreigner ticket Rs 500. Technically, appropriate dress and covered knees required, but practically all foreigners were wearing shorts, no problem. Climb itself is divided into two "stages", the first stage up to the reclining Buddha (approx. 30 minutes) were not technically difficult, just a long series of strenuous stairs. By signage there, Buddha is approximately 2300 steps up. Second stage to the top is much shorter, but difficult to climb including literally climbing rocks and squeezing between crevices. Long pants would prevent scrapes and scratches. View from the top is spectacular and worth the hike up.
* 5:00 Dinner at Sam's Burgers, saw two elephants bathing in the river nearby. Rs 1300.
* Stay: Sigiri Lion Lodge: Recommneded by Lonely Planet and also highly rated on Booking. 186 Main Road 21120 Sigiriya. Rs 3280 (incl. Rs 400 breakfast), pay with cash upon arrival. No credit card info was needed during booking. Very simple rooms, slow Wi-Fi (probably the case everywhere). Lots of mosquitoes in the area, so be sure to use provided mosquito netting (and more importantly, learn how to use it *correctly*).
* Local buses to Sigiriya run frequently from the Dambulla bus terminal (Rs 30, 45 min travel time, departures every 45 minutes).

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/11/28/srilanka4.html">Day 4: Kandy</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/11/30/srilanka6.html">Day 6: Sigiriya/Kandy</a></div></h4>