---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Post-Camino
---

# Off the Camino, Day 39: Back to Santiago and onwards to Barcelona

This morning we took the bus from Mux&iacute;a back to Santiago. There were two buses daily; on weekdays it ran at 6:45 AM and on weekends the morning departure left at 7:30. Although today was a Friday, it was Spain's National Day (although not really observed seriously here in the autonomous region of Galicia), so the bus ran on a Sunday schedule. That meant we could sleep in a little, so we woke up at 6 AM and left the Bela Mux&iacute;a albergue at 7 to walk to the bus stop. It was raining this morning, so we waited under a cafe canopy for the bus.

The bus arrived twenty minutes late, and just as I predicted, it was another Pilgrim Express. I twas almost full of pilgrims, and the boarding process was absolute chaos, but nonetheless we got our seats and I napped for the entire journey. The bus arrived at the Santiago bus station at 9:10, interestingly twenty minutes ahead of schedule, and it was also pouring rain in Santiago. We ended up taking a taxi from the bus station to the pilgrim's office in the old town, where we lined up to redeem our *Compostela*. Thankfully, it being quite early in the day, the line was only about ten minutes long. We then stored our bags in the baggage locker room then went to have breakfast.

We didn't have anything planned for today, so we wandered our way to the Pilgrim Museum, then had lunch spread over two cafes as we tried to kill time. At 4:30, we took the bus for the Santiago airport and once there, we began the wait, first outside the security zone for a few hours then at the gate for a few more. For the first time in my life, I was flying the notorious budget airline RyanAir. I had bought the 2 cabin bags + priority add-on for each of us when we bought the tickets: my reasoning was that seeing how a checked bag costed about 28 euros and thinking our backpacks could fit in the overhead bin like on our way here, the 3 euro each cost of overhead bin access would be a better value. It turns out I got duped, because if you showed up at the airport with neither, you toss your bag onto a trolley as you walk on the tarmac to the plane and they load your bag in the hold for free.

The flight took off on time at 10:30 PM and it took an hour and a half to fly to Barcelona. The whole flight it felt like the flight attendants were trying to sell us something, whether it be cigarettes or scratch cards. We arrived a bit later after midnight, and the hotel that dad had booked, the Salles Cuidad del Prat, had an airport pick-up service, so we got shuttled to the hotel and went to sleep right away.

#### Next: [Off the Camino, Day 40: Barcelona](/2018/10/12/camino40.html)