---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Fisterra Stage 35
---

# On the Camino Fisterra, Day 35: Negreira to Lago

The guidebook split the Santiago to Finisterre distance into only three stages, which would have necessitated two 30+ kilometre stages. We thought that was too much, so we decided to split this section into four days. Today's stage would have gone from Negreira all the way to Olveiroa (a whopping 33 kilometres), but last night we decided to book two albergue beds at Santa Mari&ntilde;a, at around 21 km.

Since it was cold in the morning, we slept in and left the Albergue Alecrin at 7:30 and had breakfast coffee in Negreira right away, since there would not be any further opportunities for quite some time. We had lunch at A Nusa Casa in Vilaserio by 11:30. On the trail, I had noticed signs advertising a new albergue in Monte Aro. Based on the distances the signs showed, I realized it might be a better place to stay the night, since staying in Santa Mari&ntilde;a would mean a 30+ km stage to Cee tomorrow.

So, I looked it up on Google Maps, confirmed that it indeed was in a more favourable location, and so we went there, an additional six kilometres on top of today's original plan. The Monte Aro albergue was in the village of Lago, a small farming village, so it smelled bad and had flies everywhere. There was nothing else in the village other than another bar across the street, so we bought two loaves of bread and I bought a beer for dinner.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/10/07/camino34.html">Stage 34: Santiago to Negreira</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/10/09/camino36.html"><i>Camino Fisterra</i> Stage 36: Lago to Cee</a></div></h4>