---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 25
---

# On the Camino, Day 25: Ponferrada to Villafranca del Bierzo

### 208.7 km to Santiago de Compostela

Today's stage would have been over thirty kilometres, starting in Molinaseca (which we passed yesterday), had I not added some distance to Stage 23 two days ago. We left the Albergue Guiana at 6 AM once again, and passed the suburbs of Compostilla and Columbrianos into Fuentes Nuevas where we stopped for breakfast coffee at Cafe la Emirta. We passed by more villages: Camponaraya, Cacabelos, and Pieros before arriving in Villafranca del Bierzo quite early at 11:30. Since I had booked tonight's albergue by phone the day before, we decided to stop for lunch first at the Compostela restaurant in the town square.

The albergue I booked was the Albergue Leo located near the end of town. It had an impressive average rating of 4.9 stars after over 200 reviews on Google, so I had to see it for myself. The host had saved us a room to ourselves, which was nice, and also helped us spin our clothes in this high-speed spinner after hand-washing them which left them to dry quicker. The albergue was definitely worth its rating, the historic building it occupied was nicely renovated, the washrooms were clean, and there was real linen and bedding provided. In fact, the beds were so comfortable that after I set my clothes out to dry, I knocked out and napped for about two hours.

When I did wake up from my nap, it was time for dinner, which was the usual baguettes and beer from a Coviran supermarket.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/09/27/camino24.html">Stage 24: Foncebad&oacute;n to Ponferrada</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/09/29/camino26.html">Stage 26: Villafranca to O'Cebreiro</a></div></h4>