---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 11
---

# On the Camino, Day 11: Belorado to San Juan de Ortega

### 540.7 km to Santiago de Compostela

As late as we slept last night, I managed to wake up at 5:45 this morning and so did dad, so we went downstairs to the kitchen and ate the breakfast pastries that we bought the night before. We left the Hostel Punta B and Belorado by 7:15 and started our 11th day of walking. We passed by four villages in quick succession: Tosantos, Villambistia, Espinosa del Camino, and (the first of many) Villafranca(s). We stopped for coffee in Espinosa, but it was only 10 AM by the time we reached Villafranca, too early for lunch. However, the latter half of today's stage left the highway and had no intermediate village until San Juan, so we decided to press on and have lunch after we reached our intended destination for the day.

San Juan de Ortega was listed in the guidebook as having a population of 20. Indeed, it seemed like there were only three or four buildings here; the church, the *parroquial* albergue attached to the church, a bar/restaurant (that was really part of the same building as the albergue), and a *Casa Rural* hotel (apparently owned by the same folks who run the bar). It was just a bit before 1 PM when we arrived, and it turned out that the *parroquial* albergue only started taking pilgrims at 1 (no reservations were possible, it was entirely first-come, first-serve), so we were within the first ten to check in.

After showering, we went next door to the Bar Marcela (the only spot in town) for some lunch. After lunch, I tried to connect to the wi-fi which was slow to the point that nothing worthwhile could be accomplished. At 6:30, we went to the albergue's dining room for a pilgrims' dinner, which was cafeteria-style service with pasta, chicken (or at least I think it was roasted chicken), salad and fries, as well as their famous garlic soup and bread. Quality wasn't too great but quantity was definitely there. In fact, I had to go for a stroll after dinner before going back to bed to sleep.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/09/13/camino10.html">Stage 10: Santo Domingo de la Calzada to Belorado</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/09/15/camino12.html">Stage 12: San Juan de Ortega to Burgos</a></div></h4>