---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 10
---

# On the Camino, Day 10: Santo Domingo de la Calzada to Belorado

### 563.1 km to Santiago de Compostela

I guess everyone at the Cistercian Abbey Albergue were keen walkers, because the lights were on by only 6 AM. So, we begrudgingly got out of bed and went downstairs to the dining room and ate the croissant we bought from the supermarket the night before. We packed our bags and were able to leave Santo Domingo at 7 AM on the dot.

We reached the first village of Gra&ntilde;on at 8:45 and as usual, we stopped for a coffee break before continuing, passing across the border of the La Rioja region and into the autonomous Castilla y Le&oacute;n region and its province of Burgos, before reaching the next village of Redecilla and then Vilora, where our friend Santo Domingo was actually born. We reached Villamayor del Rio by noon (incidentally, the second such village named "Villamayor" on our journey), and there we stopped for lunch at the Restaurante Le&oacute;n where I had a sandwich made with Le&oacute;n specialty - chorizo sausauge, and a mixed salad.

We reached today's destination, Belorado, just one hour after lunch by around 2 PM. I had made a reservation the night before for a Hostel Punta B that I saw was quite nice on Google, recently opened, and was maintaining a 5-star average of reviews so far. We checked in and got two beds in the dormitory, which was quite nice in that there were no bunks and in fact, only 8 beds in total. It appears to me that Belorado has the opposite problem of many villages we've passed by so far, insofar that it has too many hostel beds in the village. In fact, on our way into town there were people outside the aubergues trying to draw our business. 

I spent the afternoon resting (and watching Netflix), but dad went for a stroll around the village and found a restaurant with a pilgrim's menu - not special in any way other than the fact that it offered half-size portions. So we decided to head there for dinner, but first we went to the only supermarket in the village (not a chain either) and bought some bread and pastries for tomorrow morning. When we got there, it turns out the menu and sign was for a restaurant across the street - which had closed permanently. Instead, there was a restaurant *Cuartro Cantones* but it didn't start dinner service until 7:30.

So, we decided to head back to the village plaza and search for another place to eat. We saw one restaurant/bar that seemed quite popular with other pilgrims, but when we went inside we were told that they also didn't serve food until 7. On our way out, we met with a group of other walkers from Calgary who mentioned that the *Cuartro Cantones* restaurant we had encountered earlier was actually highly recommended, and so after chatting with them to pass the time, we walked there together.

At the *Cuartro Cantones* restaurant, we saw many familiar pilgrim faces from previous days - it seemed like everyone was here. We were able to get a seat even without making a reservation, but we had to share the table with two French pilgrims who, despite English being the *lingua franca* on the Camino, insisted on speaking French with us. So, I clobbered together as much French as I could remember from my AP French days in high school and was able to go over the basic pleasantries. The set menu dinner at the *Cuartro Cantones* included a garlic soup with chorizo sausage, roasted chicken with potatoes, and a custard dessert with house red wine. Surprisingly, the French couple didn't drink any of the wine, and told us (or at least I understood that they told us) that they didn't like Spanish wine (I personally am not cultured enough to taste the difference).

After a long dinner service that ended at almost 9, we paid (it was only 12 Euros per person!) and left as the restaurant was getting ready to host the next sitting of dinner which seemed to have more locals in line, which made sense considering how late it was.

#### Next: [Stage 11: Belorado to San Juan de Ortega](/2018/09/14/camino11.html)