---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 8
---

# On the Camino, Day 8: Logro&ntilde;o to N&aacute;jera

### 613.3 km to Santiago de Compostela

We left the *Pension Sotelo* in Logro&ntilde;o after eating some bread for breakfast and made our way out of the city and onwards to the west. Today's stage was officially 28.9 kilometres long, which meant that it was the longest so far on the Camino (but not the longest stage yet). I had made a reservation for a private *aubergue* in N&aacute;jera the night before, but they only honoured reservations until 3 PM, so we had an impetus to walk quickly today. We started walking at 7:20 before sunrise and arrived at the only village along today's stage, Navarette, by 10:30. We decided to stop for a quick brunch since there was probably nothing until N&aacute;jera.

We made good time on today's walk and arrived at the *aubergue* at 2:45 PM, just in time to make our reservation. The Auberge Nido de Cig&uuml;e&ntilde;a was quite nice and modern, and provided bedsheets at least. We did the usual showering and clothes washing before resting a bit. We went to walk around the old town for some dinner at 6, but the only restaurant that was serving food at the time told us that there would be a thirty minute wait due to high demand. Of course, as expected in Spain, nothing else was opening for dinner until 8 PM. So, we ended up going to the Eroski supermarket and bought packaged salads and some peppers for dinner, along with breakfast for tomorrow, and had dinner in the *aubergue*.

#### Next: [Stage 9: N&aacute;jera to Santo Domingo de la Calzada](/2018/09/12/camino9.html)