---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Fisterra Stage 38
---

# On the Camino Fisterra, Day 38: Finisterre to Mux&iacute;a

Today was really, *really*, the last stage of our *camino* journey, and a rather long one at that at over 28 kilometres. The weather forecast for Finisterre called for rain in the early hours of the morning, so we decided to leave after 8 when the rain would hopefully subside. So, we had breakfast in our *pension* room at 7:30 and left an hour later and started walking.

The Fisterra route was already relatively quieter than the main *Camino Frances*, and today's walk to Mux&iacute;a was even more so - we only saw about a dozen other pilgrims the entire day. We had lunch about halfway at the Hotel-Restaurant As Eiras in Lires where I had a marinated pork with fries and cheese - it was the closest thing resembling poutine that I've seen here in Spain.

We made good time in the afternoon and walked non-stop to Mux&iacute;a. We passed by the Eroski City supermarket on our way into town, so we stopped to get our dinner first before continuing to the Albergue Bela Mux&iacute;a, where I booked two beds. It was definitely a well-planned albergue that looked quite modern (and it was, in fact). It was already 4:30 by the time we checked in, so after I showered and washed my clothes, we had dinner, then we went out for a walk.

In Mux&iacute;a, the 0,00 km marker was located near the end of the peninsula at the Santuario da Virxe da Barca sanctuary, so we walked there for a few photos. It was really windy at the cape, so we quickly retreated to the albergue and went to sleep.

#### Next: [Post-Camino: Back to Santiago and onwards to Barcelona](/2018/10/12/camino39.html)