---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 9
---

# On the Camino, Day 9: N&aacute;jera to Santo Domingo de la Calzada

### 584.4 km to Santiago de Compostela

Some crazy people woke up at 4:50 this morning at the hostel in N&aacute;jera to begin walking. I suppose, because it woke both of us up, we thought it was 6 already. We really did get up again at 6 and packed our bags and ate the breakfast we bought from the supermarket last night before heading out and walking at 7:15.

We reached the first village of today's stage, Azofra, by about 8:30, and we decided to take a break for two coffees. Today's stage was much shorter than the last two days, at only 21.3 kilometres. We managed to reach the second village, Cirue&ntilde;a, by 11:30, and decided to stop and find some lunch. The village was quiet, though, and we had to go 200 metres off the trail to a bar that had some sandwiches and salads available.

We reached our destination for the day, Santo Domingo de la Calzada, by around 2 PM. According to the guidebook, there were only two *albergues* in the entire village named after Saint Dominic (who was actually born down the street in Viloria on tomorrow's Camino stage); one smaller one with a capacity of about 30 people run by Cistercian nuns and a larger, 200-or-so place run by a Confraternity, neither of which seemed very appealing. We decided to try the smaller place first. When we arrived, some folks we had met on previous days recognized us and told us that it was full, since the front desk staff have been turning people away. But when we asked, somehow they were able to provide two bunk beds for us. The *albergue* was attached to the church itself and used to be someone's house, and they clearly stuffed beds into every corner possible. The building was from the 16th or 17th century according to the signage outside.

For dinner, it was once again a trip to an Eroski supermarket for some packaged dinners and while there, we picked up breakfast for tomorrow as well.

#### Next: [Stage 10: Santo Domingo de la Calzada to Belorado](/2018/09/13/camino10.html)