---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 22
---

# On the Camino, Day 25: San Mart&iacute;n del Camino to Astorga

### 284.0 km to Santiago de Compostela

According to the guidebook, today's stage was actually laid out as Villadangos del Camino to Astorga, a disatnce of 28.5 km. But that would have meant that yesterday's stage would have only been about 20 km. So, we did some extra walking yesterday to San Mart&iacute;n (and so did many other people that we've been seeing regularly). We had breakfast in the municipal albergue's kitchen room, and as was the case for the last few days now, we started walking by 6.

The first village was 6.6 km away, Puente de &Oacute;rbigo, where we had our breakfast coffee and omelette. The bridge itself was from the 13th century. We continued along the path past Villares de &Oacute;rbigo, Santib&aacute;&ntilde;ez de Valdeiglesia, and San Justo de la Vega before arriving at Astorga at around noon. With a population of about 12,000, this was a larger stop, and dad managed to find an AirBnB. The host, however, was working and said that we could check in between 1:30 and 3:30 during his *siesta* from work, so we first went to find lunch.

We walked around the main square of Astorga, the Plaza de Espa&ntilde;a, until we found a place with food this early, called GPS Day and Night. I had a burger and we split a salad as usual, and we sat in the restaurant for a while and used their wi-fi until it was 1:30. In the afternoon, we went out for a walk, first to a Chinese-run bazaar where we bought a new drinking cup, then to the Cathedral for a stamp, and finally to a Carrefour Express for our dinner baguette and tomorrow morning's breakfast.

#### Next: [Stage 23: Astorga to Foncebad&oacute;n](/2018/09/26/camino23.html)