---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Fisterra Stage 34
---

# On the Camino Fisterra, Stage 34: Santiago to Negreira

Just because we reached Santiago didn't mean that our *Camino* was finished, since we figured we'd might as well walk the last hundred or so kilometres to the coast of Spain to say that we had truly "walked across Spain". This particular route was called the *Camino Fisterra*, named after the region Fisterra (in Galician, or Finisterre in Spanish). Today was the first stage of the *Camino Fisterra* (*Editor's Note: Although, technically, we were travelling backwards since like all roads lead to Rome, all caminos lead to Santiago*), from Santiago to Negreira, a distance of about 21 kilometres.

We woke up at 6 and left the *pension* in Santiago at 7 to start walking. It was really cold this morning, I had to wear both my fleece sweater and my biking sweater. We walked through the dark woods and stopped at the Cafe-Bar Os Arcos for breakfast coffee. They didn't have the usual potato Spanish tortilla omelette yet, so I had a pastry with my coffee. We left the Concello of Santiago and into the Concello of Ames (there were many small villages today, too many to list. In Galicia it seems that in between the "village" and "province" levels there's a "*concello*" subdivision - I'd say the closest equivalent would be a county). 

We had lunch at Bar Casa Pancho in the village of Trasmonte, then walked into the Concello of Negreira and to our albergue for the night, the Albergue Alecrin, that I had booked the night before. After showering and washing my clothes, I napped, and then we went to the only supermarket open on a Sunday - the one attached to the gas station - to buy some dinner.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/10/06/camino33.html">Stage 33: Pedrouzo to Santiago</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/10/08/camino35.html"><i>Camino Fisterra</i> Stage 35: Negreira to Lago</a></div></h4>