---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Pre-Camino 1
---

# Before the Camino, Day -1: Donostia-San Sebasti&aacute;n

Today, to adjust to for the time difference, we went for a day trip out of Bayonne across the border to San Sebasti&aacute;n, Spain, or locally known in the Euskarian language as Donostia. From our hotel in Bayonne, the H&ocirc;tel de C&ocirc;te Basques, it was just across the street to the SNCF Gare de Bayonne. From the ticket machines, we bought two tickets for the TER-Nouvelle Aquitaine regional train to Hendaye, at the end of the Bordeaux-Hendaye line at the Franco-Spanien border. The regional train took about forty minutes to get us to Hendaye.

At Hendaye, we had six minutes to exit the SNCF station and walk next door to the EuskoTren Hendaia light rail station to catch the EuskoTren to Donostia. The reason why French trains don't cross the border here into Spain is because Spain (and Portugal) have narrower train track gauges than the rest of Europe, which was why we had to change trains. (*Editor's Note: although, I've heard that newer projects in the Iberian peninsula, such as the high speed rail lines, have begun using the standard European gauge allowing trains to pass through*). The EuskoTren itself was a regional provider not affiliated with Spain's national service, Renfe, and hence not in the European database and so I wasn't able to find their train times through my otherwise-very-reliable Deutsche Bahn app, which told me that I had to actually walk across the bridge to the Irun Renfe station in Spain to catch a Renfe train.

The EuskoTren took almost an hour to get to the Amara-Donostia station, and from there it was a ten minute walk to the old town centre of Donostia. Here, we saw that the Euskarian language was more prevalent. Apparently, Euskarian has no "sibling" languages anymore (like how French is similar to Spanish as both are Romance languages), so none of the Euskarian words looked even remotely comprehensible to me.

We walked to the central Constitution Plaza, which was full of people. It turns out that, coincidentally, the first Saturday of every September is their Apple Cider festival day, and they had various cider breweries from the Basque Country here with samples. So, we paid 5 euros for a souvenir glass and ten sample tickets and tried some out. Cider is not my cup of tea, I'll put it at that.

We also then went for a stroll up Mt. Urgull for some good views of the bay and the city, and went to the beach before stopping for a beer at a beachside cafe. There weren't many trains back to Bayonne, so at around 4 PM we called it a day and made the reverse train journey back to Bayonne.

#### Next: [Before the Camino, Day 0: Bayonne to St-Jean-Pied-de-Port](/2018/09/02/camino0.html)