---
layout: srilanka2018
trip: srilanka2018
title: Sri Lanka Day 8
---

# Sri Lanka, Day 8: Horton Plains National Park

The park is located about 1.5 hours awy from Nuwara Eliya. The closest train station is Ohiya (but still quite far). Entry to the park is around US $30. Horton Plains is unique among Sri Lanka's national parks in that independent walking is permitted (*this may or may not be the case anymore*). For the World's End viewpoint, it is essential to arrive by 9:30-10, after which the area usually clouds over for the day. Avoid visiting at weekends and public holidays when it can be very noisy and busy. Transport can be booked at the guesthouses - try asking around to see if other tourists are willing to split the transport fee.

Overall review of the World's End viewpoint at Horton Plains National Park: The view was good, but not *5000 rupees* good. Largely overrun with foreigners and bus groups. Not worth the ticket/transport price.

* 4:45a Departed Nuwara Eliya by tuktuk. Negotiated a Rs 4500 price for a tuktuk to travel one-way, Nuwara Eliya-Horton Plains-Haputale plus waiting time. For same-city return trips, the going rate is about Rs 3000. The drive to the Pattipola ticket gate takes about 1 hour along B-512, a narrow sometimes laneless stretch of pavement, in a long convoy of foreigners in vans.
* 6:00a Entrance of Horton Plains National Park, Pattipola Gate. Pay here for admission by joining a long line of foreigners and their drivers/guides. No point in arriving *too* early, as the ticket booth only opens at 6. Admission was Rs 4830: Rs 2700 for a Foreign Adult, a Rs 1400 "Service Charge", Rs 630 in VAT, and Rs 60 for one local adult (the driver).
* 6:30a World's End: The 4.5-km walk takes from 40 minutes to 1.5 hours depending on how many times you stop to admire the view. Typically, groups go left at the fork (clockwise around the loop), meaning they see the Little World's End (2.5 km in) first, a mere 260-m cliff overlooking a ravine, then another 2 km up the escarpment to the Big World's End, a "spectacular precipice with a 1050-m drop". According to Lonely Planet, on a clear day, you can apparently see the coast, but more realistically, it is a blue-green lake of the Samanala Wewa reservoir project. Instead of going left (and hence clockwise), I went right (and so counterclockwise), so that at least for the first half of the walk it was quiet without all the foreign tour groups, which tend to leave at the same time. Consequently, I ran into all the tour groups at World's End, and by Little World's End I was on my own again.
* Baker's Falls: Along the loop (first destination if counterclockwise) there is a small scrambling descent to this waterfall. Unsafe to swim, don't try.
* Had a sausauge-in-a-bun pastry at the visitors centre before continuing to Haputale
* 10:00 From the National Park, continued by tuktuk to Haputale directly. Approx. 1 hour. Stopped for gas along the way and I paid (counted as tip, I guess), Rs 500.
* 12:30 Lunch at the Lettuce and Cabbage Restaurant, another LP recommendation. Rs 880. Incredibly stunning views from the restaurant dining area.
* Dinner: Homemade food made by the host family of the guesthouse, including Sri Lankan chicken curry, lemon rice (fantastic), rice noodles, vegetables, and a beer. Huge servings, hosts kept on insisting on refilling the plate!
* Stay: Nature View Guest Inn, 77 Sherwood Road/Auther Sirisena Mawatha 90160 Haputale. +94 71 962 6891. Booked on Booking.com for US$18, but paid Rs 4000 (including dinner) in cash upon arrival. Incredible views from the guesthouse as it is along the slope looking down the valley. Facilities very simple and bathroom was shared with the host family.

Notes:
* The night before I left for the National Park, the host of the guest house in Nuwara Eliya said that effective recently there was a new rule that required all guests to have a guide in order to visit the World's End viewpoint, due to a recent accident in which a German lady slipped off the viewing platform and fell to her death. However, as I passed the ticket checkpoint at the trail head, no one asked me if I had a guide or not, so I walked on my own.
* Haputale was a very beautiful village, and not overrun with tourists as many foreigners tend to stay on the train between Nuwara Eliya and Ella. Would recommend a stay of a night or two to do some hikes/walks in the area.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/12/01/srilanka7.html">Day 7: Nuwara Eliya</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/12/03/srilanka9.html">Day 9: Haputale and Ella</a></div></h4>