---
layout: camino2018
trip: camino2018
title: Camino Stage 20
---

# On the Camino, Day 20: Mansilla to Le&oacute;n

### 328.1 km to Santiago de Compostela

I managed to sleep uninterrupted last night, and when I woke up it was exactly four minutes before my 5 AM alarm. We went downstairs to the albergue's kitchen and ate the breakfsat we bought last night: some pastry thing but with a slice of ham in it and a pack of instant noodles. By the time we finished eating, everyone in our dorm was up so the lights were on and we were able to pack up. Once again, we were out the door and walking at 6.

My headphones broke last night, so only one ear had audio. I found that without listening to something my pace slowed a lot. Although today's stage was officially the shortest of this entire Camino journey at 18.1 kilometres, it wasn't until 11 when we arrived in Le&oacute;n.

We passed by quite a few villages on today's stage: Villarmoros, Puente Villarente, Arcahueja, Valdelafuente, and Puente Castro before arriving at the big metropolitan city of Le&oacute;n. We had booked a room in an AirBnB once agin, so we walked to the apartment to drop off our bags and then went to get lunch. I noticed that there was a McDonald's nearby, and I haven't had a good McDonald's meal in a while, so we went there for lunch.

After lunch, we decided to go and look for a place to buy replacement headphones. Unfortunately, it being a Sunday, many places were either closed or closing early. We wanted to go to the El Cort&eacute; Ingles department store as sort of a one-stop-shop, but turns out they were closed Sundays. Instead, we walked along Le&oacute;n's Gran Via towards the Cathedral, and stopped by an electronics store where I bought an official set of Apple earbuds for twenty euros.

Today was also the annual "Day of the Bicycle" in Le&oacute;n, and there was a massive community ride through the streets with young and old and some in ridiculous costumes. We passed by the caravan of cyclists on our way in to the town, I'd reckon there must've been around a thousand people on bikes.

They must've gathered at the Cathedral at the end of the route, because they had live music and some events there when we got to the plaza in front of the Cathedral. We circumnavigated the building until we found the tourists' office, and got a stamp for our *credencial*. Then, we went to the pharmacy (the only one we could find open on Sundays) and bought some iodine (to clean blister wounds), bandages, gauze, and a pair of small scissors.

Next, it was a stop at a Carrefour Express to buy tonight's dinner (a boxed salad and a can of Carrefour's in-house radler) and tomorrow's breakfast.

<h4><div style="text-align: left; margin-bottom: -20px">Previous: <a href="/2018/09/22/camino19.html">Stage 19: Bercianos to Mansilla</a></div></h4>
<h4><div style="text-align: right;">Next: <a href="/2018/09/24/camino21.html">Stage 21: Le&oacute;n to San Mart&iacute;n del Camino</a></div></h4>